CSS Outline

An outline is a line that is drawn around elements, OUTSIDE the borders, to make the element "stand out".

CSS has the following outline properties:

    outline-style
    outline-color
    outline-width
    outline-offset
    outline

Note: Outline differs from borders! Unlike border, the outline is drawn outside the element's border, and may overlap other content. Also, the outline is NOT a part of the element's dimensions; the element's total width and height is not affected by the width of the outline.
Outline Style

The outline-style property specifies the style of the outline, and can have one of the following values:

    dotted - Defines a dotted outline
    dashed - Defines a dashed outline
    solid - Defines a solid outline
    double - Defines a double outline
    groove - Defines a 3D grooved outline
    ridge - Defines a 3D ridged outline
    inset - Defines a 3D inset outline
    outset - Defines a 3D outset outline
    none - Defines no outline
    hidden - Defines a hidden outline

The following example shows the different outline-style values:

A dotted outline.

A dashed outline.

A solid outline.

A double outline.

A groove outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value.

A ridge outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value.

An inset outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value.

An outset outline. The effect depends on the outline-color value.
Example
p.dotted {outline-style: dotted;}
p.dashed {outline-style: dashed;}
p.solid {outline-style: solid;}
p.double {outline-style: double;}
p.groove {outline-style: groove;}
p.ridge {outline-style: ridge;}
p.inset {outline-style: inset;}
p.outset {outline-style: outset;} 

Outline Color

The outline-color property is used to set the color of the outline.

The color can be set by:

    name - specify a color name, like "red"
    RGB - specify a RGB value, like "rgb(255,0,0)"
    Hex - specify a hex value, like "#ff0000"
    invert - performs a color inversion (which ensures that the outline is visible, regardless of color background)

The following example shows some different outlines with different colors. Also notice that these elements also have a thin black border inside the outline:

A solid red outline.

A double green outline.

An outset yellow outline.
Example
p.ex1 {
  border: 1px solid black;
  outline-style: solid;
  outline-color: red;
}

p.ex2 {
  border: 1px solid black;
  outline-style: double;
  outline-color: green;
}

p.ex3 {
  border: 1px solid black;
  outline-style: outset;
  outline-color: yellow;
} 

