Difference Between Serif and Sans-serif Fonts
Serif vs. Sans-serif
CSS Font Families

In CSS, there are two types of font family names:

    generic family - a group of font families with a similar look (like "Serif" or "Monospace")
    font family - a specific font family (like "Times New Roman" or "Arial")

Generic family 	Font family 	Description
Serif 	Times New Roman
Georgia 	Serif fonts have small lines at the ends on some characters
Sans-serif 	Arial
Verdana 	"Sans" means without - these fonts do not have the lines at the ends of characters
Monospace 	Courier New
Lucida Console 	All monospace characters have the same width

Note: On computer screens, sans-serif fonts are considered easier to read than serif fonts.
Font Family

The font family of a text is set with the font-family property.

The font-family property should hold several font names as a "fallback" system. If the browser does not support the first font, it tries the next font, and so on.

Start with the font you want, and end with a generic family, to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available.

Note: If the name of a font family is more than one word, it must be in quotation marks, like: "Times New Roman".

More than one font family is specified in a comma-separated list:
Example
p {
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
} 

Font Style

The font-style property is mostly used to specify italic text.

This property has three values:

    normal - The text is shown normally
    italic - The text is shown in italics
    oblique - The text is "leaning" (oblique is very similar to italic, but less supported)

Example
p.normal {
  font-style: normal;
}

p.italic {
  font-style: italic;
}

p.oblique {
  font-style: oblique;
} 

Font Size

The font-size property sets the size of the text.

Being able to manage the text size is important in web design. However, you should not use font size adjustments to make paragraphs look like headings, or headings look like paragraphs.

Always use the proper HTML tags, like <h1> - <h6> for headings and <p> for paragraphs.

The font-size value can be an absolute, or relative size.

Absolute size:

    Sets the text to a specified size
    Does not allow a user to change the text size in all browsers (bad for accessibility reasons)
    Absolute size is useful when the physical size of the output is known

Relative size:

    Sets the size relative to surrounding elements
    Allows a user to change the text size in browsers

Note: If you do not specify a font size, the default size for normal text, like paragraphs, is 16px (16px=1em).
Set Font Size With Pixels

Setting the text size with pixels gives you full control over the text size:
Example
h1 {
  font-size: 40px;
}

h2 {
  font-size: 30px;
}

p {
  font-size: 14px;
} 

All CSS Font Properties

Property 	Description

font      	Sets all the font properties in one declaration
font-family 	Specifies the font family for text
font-size 	Specifies the font size of text
font-style 	Specifies the font style for text
font-variant 	Specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font
font-weight 	Specifies the weight of a font